# about_Broker_ErrorHandling
## TOPIC
    Citrix Broker SDK - Error Handling 

## SHORT DESCRIPTION
    Describes broker errors generated by cmdlets and how to access them. 

## LONG DESCRIPTION
    The broker SDK cmdlets report errors through the class SdkErrorRecord, which 
    is a subclass of the standard Powershell error record class 
    System.Management.Automation.ErrorRecord. SdkErrorRecord contains: 

    o   A short string to describe the error status code. This is implemented 
        as a public property named Status. 
    o   A dictionary of key-value pairs containing additional data specific to 
        the cmdlet. This is implemented as a public property named ErrorData 
        of type Dictionary<string, string>. 

    The error status property always has a value. Populating the error data 
    dictionary is optional. The number of entries within the dictionary, the 
    content of the entries, and the exact format of the key and value data is 
    specific to each cmdlet. 

    You can access an SdkErrorRecord object using the standard Powershell cmdlet 
    ErrorVariable parameter. The type of object returned by ErrorVariable 
    depends on whether the error is terminating or non-terminating. 

## NON-TERMINATING ERRORS
    For non-terminating errors, each object in the returned ErrorVariable array 
    is simply an instance of type SdkErrorRecord. 


## TERMINATING ERRORS
    For terminating errors, the object returned by ErrorVariable is of type 
    System.Management.Automation.CmdletInvocationException. 

    For non-terminating errors that are escalated as terminating errors (through 
    the "ErrorAction stop" argument), the object returned by ErrorVariable is of 
    type System.Management.Automation.ActionPreferenceStopException. 

    CmdletInvocationException and ActionPreferenceStopException are subclasses 
    of the base class System.Management.Automation.RuntimeException, which 
    exposes the SdkErrorRecord object through its ErrorData property. 

## Class SdkOperationException

    SdkErrorRecord's Exception property holds an instance of custom exception 
    class SdkOperationException, which also contains the error status code and 
    data dictionary from SdkErrorRecord. 

    The SDK cmdlets generate errors in response to exceptions generated by the 
    underlying system or by the cmdlet detecting errors locally and 
    instantiating appropriate exception types. Such exceptions, which represent 
    the original cause of the terminating error, are specified in 
    SdkOperationException's InnerException property. 

    For terminating errors, use Powershell scripts to trap SdkOperationException 
    and access additional error information and the originating exception. 

## REVIEW OF POWERSHELL ERROR HANDLING BEHAVIOR
    Powershell scripts can access error information using the following methods: 

    o   Read error records from the $error arraylist. 
    o   Get the cmdlet to return error records using the standard ErrorVariable 
        cmdlet parameter. 
    o   Use trap blocks to catch exceptions for terminating errors. 

    The type of the error record that Powershell puts in the $error arraylist 
    and returns through the ErrorVariable cmdlet parameter depends on whether 
    the error is terminating or non-terminating, and whether the "ErrorAction 
    continue" or "ErrorAction stop" cmdlet parameters are specified (that turn 
    terminating errors into non-terminating ones, and vice versa). 

    For the combinations of error types (terminating, non-terminating) and error 
    actions (stop, continue), the following statements describe the relationship 
    between: 

    o   The type of object contained in the Powershell $error arraylist. 
    o   The type of object returned by the ErrorVariable cmdlet parameter 
        (assuming the script can continue after a terminating error). 
    o   The type of the exception that is thrown (where applicable). 

    Non-terminating errors with ErrorAction=Continue, 
    $error type=SdkErrorRecord, and ErrorVariable type=SdkErrorRecord do not 
    throw an exception. 

    Terminating errors with ErrorAction=Stop, $error type=ErrorRecord, and 
    ErrorVariable type=CmdletInvocationException throw an SdkOperationException 
    exception. 

    Non-terminating errors with ErrorAction=Stop, $error type=ErrorRecord, and 
    ErrorVariable type=ActionPreferenceOperationException do not throw an 
    exception. 

    Terminating errors with ErrorAction=Continue, $error type=ErrorRecord, and 
    ErrorVariable type= CmdletInvocationException throw an SdkOperationException 
    exception. 

    ActionPreferenceOperationException and CmdletInvocationException are 
    subclasses of System.Management.Automation.RuntimeException. 

## ACCESSING ERROR RECORD DATA
    The Powershell code sample below demonstrates how to access error 
    information programmatically with the ErrorVariable cmdlet parameter and a 
    trap block. 

    # Trap exceptions generated from terminating errors 
    trap  [Exception] { 
        write "" 
        write "TRAP BLOCK : BEGIN” 

        if($_.Exception.GetType().Name -eq "SdkOperationException") 
        { 
            $sdkOpEx = $_.Exception 

            # show error status 
            write $("SdkOperationException.Status = " + $sdkOpEx.Status) 

      # show error data dictionary 
            write $("SdkOperationException.ErrorData=") 

            write $("SdkOperationException.InnerException = " + $sdkOpEx.InnerException) 
            $_.Exception.ErrorData 
        } 

        continue #could also call break here to halt script execution 
        write "TRAP BLOCK : END" 
    } 

    ########################################################################### 
    ## Run tests 1 to 4, below, in turn to examine terminating and 
    ## non-terminating error behavior. 
    ########################################################################### 

    # 
    # Test 1: Invoke cmdlet that generates a terminating error: 
    #         New-BrokerCatalog throws terminating error if a 
    #         catalog with the supplied name already exists. 
    # 
    #New-BrokerCatalog -Name "AlreadyExists" -AllocationType Random -ProvisioningType Manual -SessionSupport SingleSession -PersistUserChanges OnLocal -MachinesArePhysical $true -ErrorVariable ev 

    # 
    # Test 2: Force script execution to continue after a terminating error. 
    # 
    #New-BrokerCatalog -Name "AlreadyExists" -AllocationType Random -ProvisioningType Manual -SessionSupport SingleSession -PersistUserChanges OnLocal -MachinesArePhysical $true -ErrorVariable ev -ErrorAction continue 

    # 
    # Test 3: Invoke cmdlet that generates a non-terminating error: 
    #         Get-BrokerCatalog generates a non-terminating error if a catalog 
    #         with the specified name doesn't exist. 
    # 
    #Get-BrokerCatalog -Name "IDontExist" -ErrorVariable ev 

    # 
    # Test 4 – Force script execution to halt after a non-terminating error. 
    # 
    #Get-BrokerCatalog -Name "IDontExist" -ErrorVariable ev -ErrorAction "stop" 

    write "" 
    write "GET ERROR INFORAMTION: BEGIN" 

    $sdkErrRecord = $null 

    if($ev[0].GetType().Name -eq "SdkErrorRecord") 
    { 
        $sdkErrRecord = $ev[0] 
    } 

    elseif($ev[0].GetType().BaseType.FullName -eq "System.Management.Automation.RuntimeException") 
    { 
        $sdkErrRecord = $ev[0].ErrorRecord 
    } 
    else 
    { 
      write ("UNKNOWN ERROR VARIABLE TYPE:") 
      $ev[0].GetType().Name 
    } 

    if($sdkErrRecord -ne $null) 
    { 
        write ("Have sdkErrRecord:") 
        write ("  Type Name = " + $sdkErrRecord.GetType().FullName) 
        write ("  Status = " + $sdkErrRecord.Status) 
        write ("  Exception type = " + $sdkErrRecord.Exception.GetType().FullName) 
        write ("  ErrorData = ") 
        $sdkErrRecord.ErrorData 
        write ("  FullyQualifiedErrorId = " + $sdkErrRecord.FullyQualifiedErrorId) 
    } 
    write "GET ERROR INFORAMTION: END" 
